---
layout: post
title: PyConDe 2024 - Day 1
short: pyconde-2024-1
language: english
---

The first of three interesting days of PyCon DE & PyData is in the books. These are my takeaways:
Like most of the time there were to many interesting talks and ideas to catch immediately for me. I already looking forward to catching up on missed talks online in a few weeks. From the talks I attended I want to share my highlights.


The talk from Florian Wilhelm gave me some new Impulses how to improve our 32Guards toolchain and set up more solid python projects.
I also liked the talk by Dr. Paula González Avalos about how to embrace leadership roles as a data nerd. Coming from a position of high expertise in academia the decision between an expert and a leadership role might be hard. In my opinion we need to steer the conversation on leadership in tech and what it really needs to succeed in such roles.
However, my highlight of the day was the talk by Dr. Juan Camilo Orduz about the Hilbert Space Gaussian Process. Style-wise the talk reminded me of my days in academia as the problems discussed are quite similar to the difficulties in chemical reaction dynamics. The new method makes dealing with Gaussian Processes less computationally demanding. I was also delighted that the speaker was also inspired by Alexandre Andorras excellent blogposts about the popularity of the French president. I am excited to use the method for my own project analysing German election data. It may be just the right impulse to overcome my difficulties in dealing with Gaussian processes.

For me these three takeaways exemplify why talks at conferences like hashtag#PyConDe can be so valuable.